# Trial and No Error - Testing with Google Test

In the age of StackOverflow, ChatGPT etc. the casual software developer can be overcome by the feeling that in a few years time, software development will be mainly done by computers and the only people needed in the world of programming will be the experts developing the tools that to software development themselves. Regardless of whether the industry will be taken over by AI software developers, there's one important step that will always require human supervision: testing the software.

Let's suppose you found a perfect AI tool that spits out working code for every task you ask it to solve (yes, that's not really possible, but let's suppose it is).

> ## Now, would you ask your AI companion to write an autopilot software for a passanger plane, then upload it to the flight computer and board the plane to fly? If you would, don't continue reading, but *please* don't become an aerospace engineer.

Software testing has always been an important task in the software development lifecycle. As more and more code is AI generated, testing will probably become even more important. For this task, a number of tools have been designed in the last decades, e.g. for

* Python:
  - pytest:
  - unittest:
    
* C++:
  - Google Test:
  - cppunit:
  - Cantata++:
 
These tools, deisgned to run tests are called test runners and allow for convenient design, execution and evaluation of tests. In this post, we'll be focusing on *Google Test* (GTest) for C++ and *pytest* for Python.


## Google Test

Tests are organized in *test suites* that are collections of related individual *test cases* gathered in groups. Running these test suites is simple and convenient.

A few guidelines for good test cases are gathered below.

* test cases should be organized (in test suites)
* test cases should be repeatable (their outcome shouldn't change when re-run with the same input)
* test cases should be independent from each other (the output of one should be independent of the outcomes of the others)
* preferably, tests should be fast
* failed tests should provide as much information as possible about the failure
